Mar 27th 2024 meeting minutes (#38)
mdn/community-meetings: 2024-03-27/minutes.md

# Minutes from MDN community meeting 27th March '24

**Attendees:**
Brian (@bsmth), Vadim (@pepelsbey), Dipika (@dipikabh), Florian D (@fiji-flo), Onkar (@OnkarRuikar), Holee (@hochan222), Eric Meyer (@meyerweb), Claas Augner (@caugner), Andi (@argl), Ruth John (@rumyra), Arkanit, Jean-Yves (@teoli2003), Estelle (@estelle), Florian S (@Elchi3), Mahi

**Host:** Brian (@bsmth)

## Intro & overview of agenda

(Brian)
Welcome, great to see everyone including new faces.
Agenda:

- new Footer that's on the website.
- community participation guidelines (CPG)
- What's changed on Discord and Matrix
- The new blog post out

> I will try and leave as much time as possible for discussions and questions because we have few at the end.

Author: good idea, done in 461fb2eb90c49dbcdbd4d01ac922895e56d0c976

## Team updates

- The Matrix room and the general channel on Discord are bridged.
  That's a bi-directional chat. So messages post in the MDN matrix room, posted in the general channel on discord and vice versa.
  It's 2-way communication to make sure that people on Matrix are not completely left out and that we don't miss messages there because we tend to be in Discord quite a lot - it's tricky being everywhere. This should help it a little; we're going to see how how that works out.
- And we have a new blog post, it's about Interop: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/blog/interop2023-mdn-doc-updates/

### Footer

[Ruth John]
We've updated the MDN article footer based on user feedback, shifting more from decisions based on personal preferences to data-driven choices.
This involves a simple feedback form (on-page) asking users if they found the content helpful, so we're working more towards improving content quality through user insights.
Although there's no freeform text field feedback (for qualitative data), we're exploring other methods to gather this.

Since launching, we've seen an average 70% positive sentiment in March.

> We will to analyze this data by larger sections before tackling individual pages, combining it with other metrics like page views to inform updates or removals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will analyze this data by larger sections before tackling individual pages, combining it with other metrics like page views to inform updates or removals.
```

This is an ongoing project, and we're not taking specific requests yet for the data as we focus on actionable tasks. Any questions?

[Estelle] Q: Is there any way for people outside of Mozilla to see the feedback that is coming through?

[Ruth John]
No, the requests will come in, I know. That's why I would ask you not to ask me for that just yet, I want to be able to analyze the data first and be able to answer follow-up questions, which we'll surely have.

[Estelle]
Side note: I really miss the edit button in the Footer and I realized that I can just click on the "view on GitHub" and then edit.

[Ruth John]
Yeah, we went back and forth on this a lot of times. There were 3 links all to exactly the same thing in the old footer and it just it didn't make any sense.

### Community Participation Guidelines

[Brian Smith]
I'll talk about Mozilla's Community Participation Guidelines (CPG) — this is super important for us, especially because we're on GitHub all day and working closely with the community.

> Here's a link for anyone interested.

Reviewer: need to add the link here

Author: added in 461fb2eb90c49dbcdbd4d01ac922895e56d0c976

When a report comes in, we check it out right away to decide what to do. Often, it's clear what needs to happen, like hiding spam or blocking a bot.
But we always look at each case individually.
If it's not always straightforward, we follow a more detailed (and thorough) formal process, which involves the Community Participation team for an official investigation.

The goal is to keep the community safe and respectful.
If someone breaks the rules, we might have to take serious steps, but banning is an absolute last resort.
We prefer to resolve issues quickly with reminders of how to behave so everyone can keep participating.

If reporting through GitHub isn't your thing, you can also email CPG reports directly.
It's all private and confidential.
If you need to chat about something, just reach out. We're here to help.

[Estelle]
Any rules for false reports, a situation on Mastodon where a hijabi person was targeted with reports due to Islamophobia.
The reporter gets blocked in such cases.

[Brian Smith]
Yes abusing the reporting process is indeed a violation, consequences can vary, but it's abuse. Not sure of the specific language in CPG for that.

[Onkar]

> Is this information is linked from the main MDN website?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Is this information linked from the main MDN website?
```

For sake of keeping the things the same.
If you use different strategy for each macro then there will be confusion.
And we so whatever we decided for secure context we haven't implemented in content repo.
So there is still chance that we could revert the decision on secure context macro.

[Ruth John]
I'm having a think about it. I don't know I'm gonna come to any conclusions in this call.

[Estelle]
There are guidelines now to discussions as to how to move them forward.
So Onkar; as the driver of this discussion, if you can summarize what was said in the meeting in the discussion and then if anyone has any opinions that they haven't shared, if you can put them directly in the discussions.
Cause the discussion is supposed to be the source of truth for any decisions that we come up with.

[Onkar]
My question is now I have conveyed this, are you going to put your comments in the discussion itself for are we going to conclude in the next community meeting?

[Ruth John]
We can conclude it in the discussion.

### Indicators and banners

[Brian Smith]
Next up, indicators and banners. This one is from Estelle, is it?

[Estelle]

> It's actually not for me, it's me for Ruth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

I didn't know if there was a discussion, but if we could open up a discussion, point into the PRD, we can have the conversation in the Google doc and then once we have all the feedback in the Google Doc, port it over to the GitHub discussion.

[Ruth John]

> This is a project that we want to undergo sometime later in the year to sort out this banner mess basically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a project that we want to go over sometime later in the year to sort out this banner mess basically.
```

Next up is to go through that Doc again and create a proposal.
Once I've done that, we can start a discussion and say "this is the proposal" and discuss the thoughts behind it.
Does that work?

I would also say regarding the timeline for this; there's no urgency.
We also have to wait for Baseline to be on more pages before we can actually make a good educated decision, if we try to do that before then I think we'll be doing the work twice.

[Estelle]
There's about 6 different conversations about indicators and banners. So there's already all these discussions going on.

[Ruth John]
They're all captured in the Doc.
I'd rather wait until we had a proposal and how we're going to move forward and then open the discussion and in all the related discussions, say 'Let's go and look at this discussion because this is our proposal'.

[Estelle]
I would love to at some point close all those other discussions and move on

[Ruth John]
Yeah, it's next on the list.

### Writing Guidelines and Glossary

**Discussion:** https://github.com/orgs/mdn/discussions/661

[Brian Smith]
The sections Glossary and Writing Guidelines living on islands. A bit more of a visibility to be recognized.

[Ruth John]

> I think these are 2 separate things.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

I think where we link to the Writing Guidelines, where we link to the Glossary, are 2 separate discussions to be had because they're very separate things.
In the discussion, Will very rightly points out that if we put Writing Guidelines at the top anywhere, our users are just going to think it's "how to write code" guidelines.
So that's not something that we are going to do.

Glossary; there are design and product considerations to find out how everyone feels about putting Glossary in that dropdown.
It seems to be the consensus that people want it there.

As far as the Writing Guidelines go.
There's a lot of talk about where to put links and all the rest of it and the changes to be made.
The key one for me was: when you click on contributing, you get taken to contributing.md on GitHub and then all the links in there move you back onto MDN.

> And then this kind of open kind of worms about where we put the contribution guidelines but I think they're too linked to the Writing Guidelines to really separate them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And then this kind of opens a can of worms about where we put the contribution guidelines but I think they're too linked to the Writing Guidelines to really separate them.
```

And we can't have the Writing Guidelines elsewhere because they contain so much styling from MDN itself that we'd lose all of that.

> If we read the Writing Guidelines as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

[Onkar]
So I think it is better to move whatever there is in the GitHub `.md` files about contributing to the rendered pages and we host everything like other MDN docs.
So, basically all the README files on GitHub (CONTRIBUTING.md), we move it into the content and host it.

> The guidelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

[Ruth John]
Yeah, I think that we could stop the user flow from going to GitHub and back again.
We need to keep repository specific stuff with the repository though.

> That was a conscious decision that we made when we were doing all the contribution docs because otherwise we're gonna have 2 places to like list our 50 repositories and put all the guidelines for all of them on MDN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That was a conscious decision that we made when we were doing all the contribution docs because otherwise we're gonna have 2 places to list our 50 repositories and put all the guidelines for all of them on MDN.
```

I don't think that's MDN content. I think that's repository-specific.

So some stuff is still going to have to stay on repositories, READMEs, CONTRIBUTING.md, things like that.

[Onkar]
We can have minimal stuff on the repository and most of the checking out, the git stuff, all the small small things about using it.

[Ruth John]
I think there is some "how to use GitHub" stuff in both places, we should review it again.

> We can review the contributing MD on content that we link to, revise that and make sure that when people do click on Contributing they're taken still to MDN rather than back and forth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can review the contributing.md on content that we link to, revise that and make sure that when people do click on Contributing they're taken still to MDN rather than back and forth.
```

[Estelle]
The other thing we can do is since it's all markdown; point to the blob on GitHub which is actually then automatically rendered so it's just written in one place.
And where you link to it if you're in GitHub you can link to it from GitHub like from the README file.

[Ruth John]
We don't want to duplicate content and have to keep it up to date in 2 places.
So that does help solve that problem, definitely.
Unless you have macros. I think we can avoid them in our contributing docs.

[Estelle]

> I mean, there'll be the sidebar macro, but that would be about it. Onside.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I mean, there'll be the sidebar macro, but that would be about it.
```

But things like adding Writing Guidelines specifically unobtrusively is okay.
I think if we have a markdown page that links to all the different things on MDN, then we can harness that and we can link to that.

[Brian Smith]
Anything else? Anyone?

[Onkar]
No, just contribute to the discussions. If you put your comments over there, then we know that it is making progress.

[Estelle]
I guess what you're also saying is we should pull out Glossary from the Writing Guidelines discussion and create a separate discussion for Glossary.

[Ruth John]
I think maybe that's a good idea. Cause I think that user flow for the guidelines and where it comes from where it goes to and everything is probably gonna take over from Glossary discussion.
There'll be 2 conversations happening at the same time.

[Onkar]
Okay, I'll create a separate discussion.

[Ruth John]
Thanks.

[Estelle]
Thank you for all your contributions Onkar

[Brian Smith]
Yeah, absolutely.

[Onkar]
My pleasure.

## Closing discussions

[Brian Smith]
If there's anything else that you want to discuss, talk about, bring up. Now's a good time.

[Estelle]

> Just a section on the discussions, which is I went through a bunch of discussions. And. So if I hit you up asking you a question about, moving your discussion forward.
> There's a lot of discussions that have been opened since like 2022 so don't take it personally if I ask you if you Want to move forward to closer because some of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I went through a bunch of discussions. So I might have hit you up asking you a question to move your discussion forward. There's a lot of discussions that have been opened since like 2022.
```

[Ruth John]
That's great Estelle, thank you. I did start trying to do this a couple of months back but got caught up in discussions.

### Playground feedback

[Onkar]

> Yeah, I have one, issue that is, that has been bugging me. In the playground there is a reset button.
> And when we click on the reset button, it wipes out everything. I think the recent button should bring back the original code.
> So if you if you come to the playground from any page, any example page. Like CSS...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yeah, I have one issue that has been bugging me. In the playground, there is a Reset button.
And when we click on the Reset button, it wipes out everything. I think it should bring back the original code.
```

[Brian sharing screen]

> [Dipika]
> CSS Colors.
> 
> [Ruth John]
> We need a live sample.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

[Florian Dieminger]

> Background color, my favorite.
> No, that's a good point. It should be a "clear" button. That's what it does.
> And I do see the need for a "reset". In that term.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Background color is my favorite.
No, that's a good point. It should be a "clear" button. That's what it does.
And I do see the need for a "reset".
```

[Onkar]

> So now this is the original code and if you click on reset.
> It has wiped out everything and it, it isn't helping, right?
> Suppose I have modified the code and now I want the original code, right? To start something else from scratch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If I've modified the code and hit Reset but now I can't get the original code
```

[Florian Dieminger]

> It is, Yeah. I think right now this is hard to actually.
> The original code is not stored anywhere. We should at least change it to "clear".
> So it's clear to everyone what this button does. It doesn't reset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yeah, the original code is not stored anywhere. We should at least change it to "clear".
So it's clear to everyone what this button does. It doesn't reset.
```

I think it was done prior to the integration, so the thing was to reset the current state.
If you click on refresh, like if you come to the playground from the top, you have a fresh thing.

And reset like get it back to be clean. But it should should be clear. And I do see the need for that.

To get back to the example.
We have enhancing the playground in our goals.
And we'll actually extend it quite a bit and move to having a proper Service worker implementation.

I think we can do the "clear" rather soon because that's like UI renaming.
But to actually store the context you came with like the original example and reset to that original state.
Probably have to wait until we do the second iteration of the playground, which will be midsummer, something like that.

[Onkar]

> In the share URL you are already capturing the all code right
> In the link you already have the code, then could you just pick up the code and repopulate the editor?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the share URL, you are already capturing the code, right. Could you just pick up the code and repopulate the editor?
```

[Florian Dieminger]

> No, the permalink actually that is quite different.
> That actually creates Gist on GitHub where the code is stored and we don't have this for a live sample.
> So the live samples. They are basically stored in local Local storage.
> I can look if I can see an easy way to restore that state but right now basically we don't keep history.
> I mean that's the issue; if you modify the code, we override the current state and we don't have a history in the state.
> 
> It's possible to add it. But what I'm trying to say is that we want to touch a lot of bits and pieces.
> And then also solve for that rather than find a way to make only that work now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No, the permalink is quite different.
That actually creates Gist on GitHub where the code is stored and we don't have this for a live sample.
So the live samples are stored in local local storage.
I can look if I can see an easy way to restore that state but right now we don't keep history.
I mean that's the issue; if you modify the code, we override the current state and we don't have a history in the state.
```

[Onkar]
So quick solution is to rename the button to clear, right?

[Florian Dieminger]

> Yes, yes, and I think Control C in the editors works and maybe there is a way for me to actually
> Make this to go in the editors to the initial state. I need to look into that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, and I think Control C in the editors works and maybe there is a way for me to actually make this to go in the editors to the initial state. I need to look into that.
```
